# Introduction

Linea, a pioneer in the ZK space delivering a fully EVM-compatible, secure, and performant zkEVM rollup, is launching **Linea Ignition campaign** designed to boost liquidity depth, DeFi activity, and Linea’s long-term ecosystem growth. This incentive program is a catalyst for our ecosystem, targeting over **$1 billion in TVL** and distributing **1 billion LINEA tokens** from the ecosystem fund managed by the Linea Consortium as rewards.&#x20;

Linea Ignition campaign is supported by Brevis—a Infinite Compute Layer for Web3 (and Everything). Brevis unlocks a new level of scalability and trust for blockchain, by enabling blockchain applications to run complex, data-intensive computations off-chain while still proving the results on-chain using zero-knowledge proofs generated by Brevis Pico zkVM and zkCoprocessor.

Linea Ignition campaign exemplifies Continuous Protocol Incentivization — a new model allows protocols to distribute rewards sustainably over time based on on-chain behaviors. Brevis enables this process by generating ZK proofs for each LP’s activity (e.g. liquidity provided, volume absorbed), applying predefined reward logic, and enabling end-to-end on-chain verification of reward distribution. By launching the Linea Ignition campaign on Brevis, Linea is showing what it means to put principles into action:

* No centralized rewards database — every calculation is backed by a cryptographic proof published directly on-chain.
* No unnecessary friction — works seamlessly with positions users already hold.
* No compromise on trust — anyone can verify payouts independently.

All these actions make the Linea Ignition campaign fully secure, trustless, and transparent.
